
The app's main purpose is to search for (and visualize) the coauthor network of any researcher without a database (or the internet is just the database so to speak). If the user input the name, research field of the researcher as well as the coauthor radius (defined as the length of walk from the researcher to the coauthor; for example, if the coauthor radius is 0, then the app will collect information about the direct coauthors; if the radius is 1, then we collect information about the coauthors' coauthors).

The way I solve this problem is to imitate human searching behavior: 1. search for the CV from google; 2. find the publication section in the CV and extract the direct coauthors; 3. (recursively) search for the profile and coauthors of those direct coauthors.

One thing before I implement the steps is to design a consistent and convenient way to store and represent the network. The network data structure here I use is mostly inspired by a python module called networkx (excluding other numerical analysis features). Basically, the network is stored as a class which contains the nodes, node attributes (e.g. PhD graduation year) and edges of the network. Within the class, I can add/remove nodes, add attributes and edges (an edge is represented as a tuple containing two nodes). This structure will make the data operation more convenient.

For the first step (searching), the main functions are contained in "searchAndCheckUrl.py" in the source code folder. Here, I use a module called google search (file included in the folder) to get the search results (urls) from keyword searching online based on the name and research field. For all those urls, if it is a html, I check if the contents contain all the information we need (phd graduation year, publications). If not, I search within the page (perhaps it is a personal webpage and the CV link is hidden somewhere) to check if there are any pdf links directing to a potential pdf CV. If the app finds a pdf, it uses module pdfminer to extract the text from the pdf file.

The second step is mainly executed with module "extractInfoFromFile.py". Here I combine regular expression (module re) and natural language processing toolkit (module nltk) to locate the year of PhD graduation and coauthors within a CV. For PhD graduation year, I find the nearest year around the phrase "PHD" (or equivalent phrases). For coauthors, I first locate the publication section, and process the each publication line by line to identify the coauthor names. As with all machine-learning procedure, this is not error free. So in the GUI, the user can remove a coauthor by double-clicking on it.

The procedures above can be executed through the data page of the GUI ("interface.py"). In that page, the user will see a short form asking for the name, research field and coauthor radius to conduct a search. After hitting the "generate" button, the app will try to find the coauthor network. If results are found, the right hand side of the GUI will display an interactive network map representing the network. As mentioned before, the user can remove a node (a coauthor) by double-clicking on the node. The links associated with the node will also disappear. Also, the user can drag the node to move its position. If the user hover over a node, the map will show the node specific information (graduation year) above it. Moreover, if the user already have a network data file (as in the form of "sampleNetworkData.txt" in the folder), he/she can upload the file directly and visualize the network.

And in the Analysis page of the GUI, the user can find a shortest path (if any) between any two nodes in the network. And hitting "generate" will highlight the path, hitting "clearing" will make it disappear.

Finally, the user instructions are included in the graphs of the interface.

